# rafaelsnchez.github.io

Welcome.

The coursework throughout the computer Science Program and the development of this E-portfolio helped me build the foundation needed to continue learning and working towards a career in software development. I initially came into the programing seeking to learn software development for employment as a software developer. But after taking a network foundation course early in the program, I found that aspect of computer science to be more interesting. Although that is the route of employment I sought after taking the course. The program helped me learn the software development Lifecyle and how to collaborate in a team environment using the agile method. The program also covered how to interpret, manipulate, and present data to stakeholders or company seeking to expand its audience. Finding the solution to many of the ideas and problems was a key component to the data structures and algorithms aspect of the program, learning how to parse through data and create alternative routes to achieve the same goal was a strong layer to the foundation. Working with the multiple languages through the program was preparation for what to expect when working within a collaborative environment, writing well commented and modular code is a key factor to success as a developer working in team. 
	The artifact consists of a database that holds stock market data and uses the REST.py logic to run CRUD operations on the dataset. The artifact’s parts were created in a course taken earlier in my program curriculum and put together to function as one in this artifact. I selected this artifact to display my skills on a topic I enjoyed learning in this curriculum. Within the artifact, Python is used to represent the software design element and goes hand in hand with the algorithms and data structures aspect of the logic for the CRUD operations that is written in python. MongoDB was the database the logic and language was based off. Once in the project; run the REST.py file to establish the connection with the local server and open a second terminal to start manipulating the dataset with the right curl commands for example: curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST -d '{"Sector" : "Food"}' http://localhost:8080/createStock/DSE the DSE stock is added to the dataset with the parameters Sector of operations being food.
